Results explorer
================

.. raw:: html

   <p>
     <a href="../_static/results-explorer.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener"
        style="display:inline-block;padding:10px 18px;background:#990F3D;
               color:#fff1e5;text-decoration:none;border-radius:2px;
               font-family:Inter,sans-serif;font-weight:600;letter-spacing:0.04em;">
       Open the Results Explorer →
     </a>
   </p>

A standalone, self-contained HTML page that lets you browse a snapshot of
``torchgeo-bench`` benchmark results in your browser — no server required.
The page is styled like a *Financial Times* article: a kicker, headline,
standfirst and byline introduce the data, followed by four interactive
figures and a sortable appendix table.

What's in it
------------

The default snapshot bundled with the docs covers GeoBench V1
classification (5 datasets × KNN-5 + linear probe × 113 model variants).
The page renders four figures plus a full data table:

- **Figure 1 — Per-dataset leaderboard.** Top-N model variants per
  dataset with bootstrap 95% confidence-interval whiskers.
- **Figure 2 — Two-axis explorer.** Free-form scatter where any numeric
  column can be plotted against any other, coloured by model family and
  faceted by dataset (or by anything else).
- **Figure 3 — KNN-5 vs linear probe.** Head-to-head comparison for every
  ``(dataset, model)`` pair with the diagonal reference line.
- **Figure 4 — Mean accuracy across datasets.** Variants ranked by their
  mean accuracy across the (currently filtered) datasets.
- **Appendix — the underlying data.** Sortable, paginated Tabulator view.

A sidebar of filters (dataset / method / model family / normalization /
free-text search by model name) is live across every figure and the
table; the headline lede and a "key findings" strip recompute on every
change.

Regenerating the page
---------------------

The page is generated by :file:`scripts/viz_results.py` from any
``torchgeo-bench`` results CSV. The CSV rows are embedded directly in the
HTML output, so the resulting file is fully self-contained (only the
Plotly and Tabulator JavaScript libraries are loaded from a CDN).

.. code-block:: bash

   python scripts/viz_results.py \
       results/all_results.csv \
       docs/_static/results-explorer.html

Override the FT-style headline and standfirst with the optional flags:

.. code-block:: bash

   python scripts/viz_results.py \
       results/torchgeo_results.csv \
       docs/_static/torchgeo-explorer.html \
       --headline "torchgeo backbones, ranked" \
       --standfirst "How geospatial foundation models stack up on GeoBench V1."

Both default to summaries computed from the CSV (number of variants,
number of datasets, top accuracy, top dataset).

Notes
-----

- The visualizer assumes the standard ``torchgeo-bench`` results schema
  (``dataset``, ``method``, ``metric_name``, ``metric_value``,
  ``ci_lower``, ``ci_upper``, ``model``, ``name``, ``normalization``…).
  See :doc:`results-format` for the full column list.
- All charts and the table react to the same filter state; nothing is
  precomputed server-side.
- The page works when opened directly with ``file://`` URLs as well as
  when served by Sphinx.
